Colonies

High Concept:
In this explorer based colonial experience you will be captaining a crew and ship and 
setting sail. In this game you will be colonizing islands and defending them against 
other countries.  These other countries will be NPC's.  Hopefully in the future they
can all be players.  These NPS's will also be trying to colonize and protect islands.
Along with this they will also be able to customize their ship and they will range in 
power.  However, they will not be the only ones able to customize and improve their ships.  You,
the player, will also be able to improve and customize your ship.  This can range from
a speedy ship to a full blown powerhouse.  The choice is yours.

Genre:
Gameplay Genre: Colonial expansionism, with hints of piratcy, defense,  and base building
IGN Genres: Action, Adventure, Battle, Strategy
Apple App Store Genres: Action, Adventure, Strategy

Platform: 
Desktop

Story:
After your colony finally became big enough they began to send out explorations to other islands and distant lands.  But, so did the other colonies.  Now it’s a race.  Who can find and colonize the best islands first.  More importantly who can defend them the longest.  As a captain in the new colonies fleet you must customize and prepare your ship to engage in exciting battles over the seas.

Esthetics:
This will be a cartoonish solid color game.  There will be sounds played as the player progresses in the game.  Sounds include cannon fire for combat, a victory noise when colonizing an island,  bird noises when closing in on an island, and ambient water noises during exploration.

Gameplay:
*In this game the player is sailing to find islands to colonize.  While they are doing this they will need to defend their colonies and their own boat in naval combat against the AI.  To win is to score the highest score prior to your boat sinking(due to pirates or other colonies).  You can acquire score in three ways: To colonize an island you get 1000 points, to sink another boat you get 100 points, and final you get 1 point for every second you survive. 
*The controls will be WASD to move the boat.  You then most line up your boat so your cannons are facing the target and then press Q to shoot port side cannons, and then press E to shoot starboard cannons.  There will be a 3 second delay in cannon fire so it simulates reloading a cannon.
*To learn the game a popup will show up before launch to tell you the controls.  Besides that it is a pretty straightforward game so the user will read the instructions and then just practice and learn on the job.
*The player will need to learn the fleet sizes of certain colonies and know that pirates tend to have very unique and powerful ships.  On top of all of that the user will need to remember the routes certain ships take and avoid them or ambush them.  


About the developers:
My name is Lucas veldman and I am a sophomore at RIT majoring in Game Design and Development.  I really enjoy programming in C# and 3D modelling in Maya.  Outside of school I really like american football and skiing.
